planetterp_math120_loyd

Course: MATH120 - Elementary Calculus I
Prerequisite: 1 course with a minimum grade of C- from (MATH112, MATH113, MATH115). Or must have math eligibility of MATH120 or higher; and math eligibility is based on the Math Placement Test.
Restriction: Not open to students majoring in mathematics, engineering, the biological sciences, biochemistry, chemistry, or the physical sciences.
Credit only granted for: MATH120, MATH130, MATH136, MATH140, or MATH220.
Formerly: MATH220.
Basic ideas of differential and integral calculus, with emphasis on elementary techniques of differentiation and applications.

Review 1: Kaitlyn was a great professor for 310. Her notes in class are easy to follow and neatly written. The exams were fair, with the third exam being the hardest due to it being the 410 content. However, she is very nice and understanding, especially in office hours. For 310 the class was based on points, so even if you didn't do so well on the exams, the homeworks, groupworks, and quizzes would even your grade out. Weekly quizzes were fair but some were definitely harder than others. Thankfully she drops the lowest quiz, homework, and groupwork. 310 is a hard class by nature, but I felt like it was doable with Kaitlyn, and I definitely feel much more comfortable writing proofs now. I am grateful for this class since it has made my current 410 class much less stressful after learning in depth how to do proofs in 310. Overall recommend this professor and would take another class with her.

Review 2:
This was her first semester teaching, and she did a great job. Like the other person said, her exams were extremely fair, and the final was fairly easy. Homeworks initially took a while, but she took class feedback, which was great, and made them shorter.

******Her handwriting is AMAZING and her notes are super clear. Also, she is extremely nice and always ready to listen. It's nice seeing a professor who can also laugh.

Review 3:
I'm pretty sure this was her first semester teaching, and she did pretty well imo.
Exams were fair, and actually got easier as the semester went on, but I think that's because of the nature of the class; you get better at writing proofs over time.
Workload was initially a bit much, homeworks took up a ton of time. But she took feedback from the class and scaled them down. They're still really helpful to study. We had quizzes most weeks which were never too bad. Group works were good for grades and added a nice way to discuss the material with classmates.
Lectures got better as the semester went on. Writes clearly on the board, and emphasizes theorems and definitions over just drilling examples. I don't know how she would teach a computational class, but her style fit 310 well. She speaks very quietly though
I'd say I got a lot out of the class- I feel much more comfortable writing proofs than I did going into it, which is the entire point of 310.
I recommend her, she'll give you a fair class