planetterp_hist201_chiles

Course: HIST201 - Interpreting American History: From 1865 to the Present
Professor: Robert Chiles

Review 1:
Absolutely incredible lecturer; you can tell he is extremely passionate about teaching. Workload was more than manageable if you take the time after lecture to write your journal entries (which shouldn't take longer than 20-30 minutes each if you know what you're doing). There were 2 papers (one was an analysis of a book, and the other served as the final in which you synthesize the content of the journal entries you wrote over the course of the semester) and one midterm exam. He tells you what will be on the midterm beforehand, so don't worry about being lost when studying. He responds to emails quickly (within 24 hours) and was always happy to answer questions in his office hours. If you are a history major or just looking to fulfill a gen-ed, I would definitely recommend his class; it will be engaging even if you have no particular love for history, and you don't have to worry about getting a bad grade if you put in the slightest bit of effort.

Review 2:
Had high expectations for Dr. Chiles based on the reviews.. and overall, he lived up to the hype.
His teaching style was very performative and did not feel like a traditional lecture class. He really made history come to life and introduced so many characters and subplots throughout the semester. I definitely see history as more of a story than just a series of events that happened over certain periods of time.

While I did think the journals were a bit tedious (especially if you procrastinate to the last minute), I did like how it encouraged my own reflections and opinions about the topics in class. Also like other reviews be prepared that he does go over the scheduled time, so if you have a class right after that may be less than ideal...
He does give you a TON of extra time for the midterm and final exams... and he gave a 10 point extra credit opportunity for a discussion of A Christmas Carol.

I would definitely take another classes with Dr. Chiles to go deeper into specific topics/periods in history - overall I enjoyed him as a professor

Review 3:
The GOAT. The journal reflection is a breeze; just summarize the lecture and add a couple of "I thought" or "I liked how;" just anything with "I." The TA's grade pretty easily on the essay, midterm, and final. Very easy and interesting class, good lecturer, and nice GPA booster.