planetterp_hist201_freund

Course: HIST201 - Interpreting American History: From 1865 to the Present
Professor: David Freund

Review 1:
Decent class, but his TA was a harsh grader. I was literally 2 points away from an A!

Review 2:
Dr. Freund was one of my favorite college professors I've had so far. I hated history throughout high school and now I genuinely love it and have learned so much just from one semester. His lectures were as entertaining as they possibly could be for breaking down American history. There were a good amount of readings, but all genuinely interesting and used for all the assignments/discussions. Only a few assignments that he works really hard to prepare you for. Dr. Freund is the best! Not many professors like him anymore! He's super funny and understanding if you have special circumstances too. If you're a policy major, Dr. Freund will teach you about the institutions that will tie back to all your other policy classes later. He's the goat!!

Review 3:
A lot of these other reviews for Dr. Freund are pretty outdated and rate him kinda harshly, but I really enjoyed his lectures for HIST201, even though realistically, a lot of people skipped them. Oftentimes, he would begin class with a short news update with a current headline and relate it to something we've learned in class, or play a classic video clip. The lectures themselves are somewhat conceptual in comparison to a high school history class, as he would largely focus on how different stakeholders would see and resolve conflicts. He was very engaging, encouraging people to answer questions he posed, and his explanations were interesting and thorough as well. He would also stay after class to answer questions, either about class topics or the issues going on in the real world. The grading in this class seems to be based on the TA more than Freund himself, though this was fine for my class, and like the review before me noted, there are very few grades in the class, meaning that you need to put the work in for these assignments (and discussion attendance) to get the best grade out of the class.